.TH TM-FORMAT 1
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
tm-format \- Time Machine file format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
This document presents a portable, self-documenting and extensible
file format.  The general format is lines of text, each line
consisting of one or more fields. Adjacent fields are separated by
one `|' (pipe) character.  Non-printable characters, the newline,
`%' (percent), and `|' (pipe) characters are represented by their
hexadecimal equivalent as `%NN'.
.SH HEADER SECTION
A file in time-machine format starts with a two-line header that
specifies the origin of the data. The first line contains the names
of origin attributes.  The second line lists the actual values of
those attributes in the order of the attribute names. Examples of
recommended origin attributes are:
.IP class
A string that specifies the type of data. Usually this is named
after the tool that collected the information.
.IP host
A string with the unique name of the host on which the data was
collected.
.IP start_time
Start of data collection (UNIX time in seconds).
.IP end_time
End of data collection (UNIX time in seconds).
.SH DATA SECTION
The remainder of the file consists of one line with data attribute
names, followed by zero or more lines, each line listing data
attribute values in the order of the data attribute names.
.PP
The choice of data attribute names and of their value types is
entirely up to the application.  The implementor is encouraged to
consistently use generic attribute names such as `host' and `user',
and to consistently use UNIX time coordinates for all time information,
so that one can use generic tools to correlate files from different
sources without having to write application-specific software.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
This software is distributed under the IBM Public License.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema 
IBM T.J. Watson Research 
P.O. Box 704 
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
