.TH GRAVE-ROBBER 1
.SH NAME
.B grave-robber - capture system forensic data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grave-robber
[
.B \-filmnpstvDEFIMOPVS
]
[
.B \-b body_file
]
[
.B \-c corpse_dir
]
[
.B \-d data_directory
]
[
.B \-e error_file
]
[
.B \-o os_type
]
[
.B directory_name(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I grave-robber
runs many sub-programs in an attempt to capture forensic information
about a Unix system.  It captures process and network information, as
well as gathering data from the directory and all its subdirectories 
passed as a command line argument (defaulting to the root directory 
(`/') if no directories are specified.)  It may be run by any user,
but note that many of the programs it runs require privileged access.

.PP
It roughly captures data according to the Order of Volatility; the OOV
roughly says that certain data is more volatile or ephemeral than other
types (memory vs. disk, for instance); generally speaking you want to 
capture the most volatile information before it goes away.  However, since
any queries of the system risk disturbing other potentially valuable data
one must be careful.  And while it impossible to automate this perfectly,
the grave-robber can be a useful way of automating the process.
.PP
The results are saved in the directory $DATA (the value of which is
found in the
.I coroner.cf
file), with each subprogram saving its output to a separate file.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
There are three main types of options - general, micro data collection,
and macro data collection.  The general options control basic things
such as where output goes, program verbosity, etc.  The micro data collection
flags allow finer grained control over what sort of data gets collected -
MACtimes, process information, etc.  The macro data collection flags group
the micro data collection flags into logical groups.

.SH General Options
.TP 8
.B \-b body_file
The grave robber will write lstat and md5 information to this bodyfile 
instead of the default ($TCT_HOME/data/hostname/body).
.TP 8
.B \-c corpse_dir
A dead, not live, system (such as a mounted disk.)  Prepend all stuff 
with corpse_dir... e.g. -c
.I /foo
would make it look in 
.I /foo/etc/passwd 
for the passwd file, etc.  This also REQUIRES the -o flag.  Implies the
.B \-l
option.
.TP 8
.B \-d datadir
Specify the data directory; this overrides the $DATA/hostname default.
All forensic information captured goes into a subdirectory of this 
directory.  This subdirectory is formed by concatenating the hostname 
the 
.I grave-robber
was run from and the date the program was executed.
.TP 8
.B \-e errorfile
The file to redirect the stderr stream to.
.TP 8
.B \-o os_type
To be used with the -c flag, this tells the grave-robber
what sort of corpse you have.  Acceptable values include
\fB`FREEBSD2'\fR,
\fB`FREEBSD3'\fR,
\fB`OPENBSD2'\fR,
\fB`OPENBSD3'\fR,
\fB`OPENBSD4'\fR,
\fB`BSDI2'\fR,
\fB`BSDI3'\fR,
\fB`SUNOS4'\fR,
\fB`SUNOS5'\fR,
and \fB`LINUX2'\fR.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Verbose; lots of output to stdout that attempts to give some idea of what
the program is doing at any given time.
.TP 8
.B \-D
debug - print *lots* of output.  Usually not desired.

.SH Macro Data Collection
.TP 8
.B \-E
This collects everything that it can, including dangerous
operations like 
.I pcat.
Currently this only adds -I and -p to the default.
.TP 8
.B \-f
Fast/quick capture - try to avoid the file system; no MD5's, lstat(),  or
other very expensive data grabbing.  It doesn't make sense with the -m 
option.  Implies -O, -P, & -s.
.TP 8
.B \-n
The default flag - if neither -E, -f, or any of the other data options 
are chosen, then the
.B \-i,
.B \-m,
.B \-M,
.B \-P,
.B \-s,
.B \-t,
.B \-l,
.B \-I,
.B \-O,
.B \-F,
.B \-S,
and
.B \-V
flags are set.
.SH Micro Data Collection
.TP 8
.B \-F
collect files from the file system as the file
walking moves through.  Copies things from the
$conf_pattern variable (set in 
.I coroner.cf,
and usually including REGEXPs like "*.cf", "*.conf", etc.)
Implies 
.B -m
(lstats() are done by the file walking anyway, so we save that information)
.TP 8
.B \-i
collect inode data from the unallocated area of the file systems.  Requires
read access to the device in question.
.TP 8
.B \-I
capture the executable files of running process.  First try copying
the executable file using information found in /proc, then try to use
icat with inode information that was obtained from lsof.  Requires
a live system.
.TP 8
.B \-l
Before gathering the requested information, lstat() all files and
directories listed in the user's $PATH variable, listed in the
look@first file, and below the $TCT_HOME directory.  Requires a
live system.
.TP 8
.B \-M
do md5's of files - implies 
.B -m
(lstats() are done anyway, so we save them)
.TP 8
.B \-m
gather lstat() results for the 
.I mactime
program.
.TP 8
.B \-O
save files that are open but have been deleted from
the disk (often config files, executables, etc.)
Requires read access to the device in question.
.TP 8
.B \-p
Copy process memory to file with the
.I pcat
command.  WARNING - some systems have significant trouble with this!
Be sure to test this first before using it in a crisis.  Requires root
access to capture processes owned by other users, as well as a live system.
.TP 8
.B \-P
run the process commands - 
.I ps,
.I lsof,
.I icat
- to get data on running processes and to make copies of their
executable files.  Requires a live system for many of the commands.
The
.I icat
command requires privileges and is used only on systems where the
executable file cannot be accessed through the /proc file system.
.TP 8
.B \-S
save files listed in the 
.I save_these_files
configuration file.
.TP 8
.B \-s
run the general Shell commands on the host; this 
includes network & host info gathering, such as
.I netstat,
.I df,
etc.  This doesn't include process (
.I ps,
.I lsof,
etc. commands (see the
.B \-P
flag for that.  Many require a live system.
.TP 8
.B \-t
gather trust information from both the host and users.  This includes
hosts.equiv files, .rhosts, xhosts, etc.
.TP 8
.B \-V
do some mucking around in dev (deV? - Out of letters!), mostly getting
major & minor numbers for devices.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
TCT_HOME, location of grave-robber software and configuration files.
.PP
.SH FILES
.I grave-robber.cf
the main configuration file
(is perl executable code).
.br
.I coroner.cf
some global TCT defaults and configuration details 
(is perl executable code).
.br
.I look@first
files that are stashed away when the -L option is chosen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mactime (1)
.BR ils (1)
.BR pcat (1)
.BR icat (1)
.BR coroner.cf
.BR look@first
.BR lazarus.README
.SH LICENSE
Distributed under the details found in the
.I COPYRIGHT
file found in the root directory of The Coroner's Toolkit.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
dan farmer
zen@fish.com
EarthLink
