.TH ICAT 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
icat
\-
copy files by inode number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
\fBicat\fR [\fB-hHvV\fR] [\fB-f \fIfstype\fR]
\fIdevice\fR \fIinode\fR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBicat\fR opens the named \fIdevice\fR and copies the files
with the specified \fIinode\fR numbers to standard output.

Arguments:
.IP "\fB-f \fIfstype\fR"
Specifies the file system type. The default file system type
is system dependent. With most UNIX systems the default type
is \fBufs\fR (Berkeley fast file system). With Linux the default
type is \fBext2fs\fR (second extended file system).
.IP \fB-h\fR
Skip over holes in files, so that absolute address information
is lost. This option saves space when copying sparse files.
.IP "\fB-H\fR (default)"
Copy holes in files as null blocks, so that absolute address
information is preserved. This option wastes space when copying
sparse files.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose mode, output to stderr.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Enable verbose mode, output to stdout.
.IP \fIdevice\fR
Disk special file, or regular file containing a disk image.
On UNIX systems, raw mode disk access may give better performance
than block mode disk access.  LINUX disk device drivers support
only block mode disk access.
.IP \fIinode\fR
Inode number. \fBicat\fR concatenates the contents of all specified
files.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
\fBicat\fR should support more file system types. Right now, support
is limited to \fBext2fs\fR when built on Linux, and \fBufs\fR when
built on Solaris and BSD systems.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
This software is distributed under the IBM Public License.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
