.TH LAZARUS 1
.SH NAME
.B lazarus - "create structure from unstructured data"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lazarus
[
.B \-1bBdhHtT
]
[
.B \-D
directory
]
[
.B \-H
directory
]
[
.B \-w
directory
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lazarus
tries to revive things that have died and gone into the 
binary spirit world... deleted files, data in memory, swap, etc.
.PP
Lazarus reads and examines data, and if the data passes certain criteria 
marks it as a known or unknown block of information and saves it in
a data directory.
Saved data blocks can be examined later with additional tools or via
a browser if lazarus is run with the 
.I -h
(HTML) option.
.PP
The output is a set of characters (or HTML color-coded chars, see
lazarus.cf) that correspond to the type of blocks that lazarus sees.
In addition it creates files that contain the data in the $blocks 
directory (this value is modified with the -B flag or by changing the
default values in 
.I lazaruz.cf,
the lazarus configuration file.
Consecutive blocks of the same character type means that 
it has seen a run of blocks that it strings together and stuffs in 
the same $blocks/* output file.  The initial character of a run will 
always be a capital letter (if possible; some types are denoted by
punctuation marks), followup letters in the same run will be lowercase.
For instance, if it outputs "Cc", it means that the first block and 
second blocks of the data found are suspected to be C programs.  
A "." represents unrecognized binary blocks of data.

To make the output stay in semi-manageable size, it does a logarithmic
compression of the output (base 2).  The first character represents
one block or less of data, the 2nd from 0-2 blocks, the 3rd 0-4, the 
fourth 0-8, etc.  Blocks are typically, but not always (and are user 
definable) 1024 bytes.

 Typical output might look like:

   .....T.Ttt..T.Tt.Tttt.Tttt.Ttttt.Ccc.....L..Lll....
   Llllllll....T.Mmmmmm..TMmmmm....LlllllllllllMmmmm..
   [...]

The colors (corresponding to the netscape color scheme) and characters 
for recognized text and files are kept in the 
.I lazarus.cf
file, and are:

type   value       color                 meaning
.br
t     777777       gray                  unresolved text
.br
f     ff0000       bright red (alarm)    sniffer stuff
.br
m     0066ff       blue                  mail
.br
q     6633ff       pale blue             mailq files
.br
s     6699ff       purply                emacs/lisp
.br
p     cc6666       greenish              program file
.br
c     336666       green                 C code
.br
h     ff99ff       light purple          HTML
.br
w     cc3333       reddish               password file
.br
l     cc9900       light brown           log file
.br

Binary files are represented by:

type   value       color                 meaning
.br
.     000000       black                 unresolved stuff
.br
o     bbbbbb       light grey            null block
.br
r     000000       black                 removed'd block
.br
x     000000       black                 binary exe
.br
e     d9d9i9       gold                  ELF
.br
i     238e68       greenish              JPG/GIF
.br
a     d19275       black                 cpio/tar/etc
.br
z     336633       greenish              compressed
.br
!     000000       black                 audio
.br

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-1
process byte-style, one byte at a time, rather than one
block of data at a time.  Not generally recommended,
perhaps useful for looking at memory, etc.

.TP 8
.B \-b
don't write unrecognized binary data blocks (writes by default)

.TP 8
.B \-B
don't write ANY binary data blocks (writes by default)

.TP 8
.B \-d
turn debug on (not recommended ;-))

.TP 8
.B \-h
emit HTML code rather than ASCII text.  It outputs to three
files - the data file ($ARGV[0]) + .html, .menu.html,
and .frame.html.  You generally want to look at the
$ARGV[0].frame.html file (with your browser) initially.

.TP 8
.B \-H directory
save the HTML frames code in this directory.  Only useful with -h flag.

.TP 8
.B \-D directory 
write the data blocks into this directory name
(hey, running out of letters here, cut me slack!)

.TP 8
.B \-t
don't write unrecognized text data blocks (writes by default)

.TP 8
.B \-T
don't write ANY text data blocks (writes by default)

.TP 8
.B \-w directory 
use this directory to write all the HTML code.
Meaningless unless used with -h!




.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR unrm (1)
.BR lazarus.cf
.SH LICENSE
Distributed under the details found in the
.I COPYRIGHT
file found in the root directory of The Coroner's Toolkit.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
dan farmer
zen@fish.com
EarthLink

