.TH MACTIME 1
.SH NAME
.B mactime - "an mtime, atime, and ctime reporter"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mactime
[
.B \-DfhlnRsty
[
.B \-d directory
]
[
.B \-g group
]
[
.B \-p passwd
]
[
.B \-u user
]
[
.B \-b bodyfile
]
time1
[
.B -time2
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mactime
is a program that attempts to determine what files 
were accessed or modified within a given time frame.
The information is either calculated on the fly (with the
-d flag) or taken from an already calculated database; see 
the program 
.I grave-robber)
.PP
Format of the time is typically month/date/year - e.g. 4/5/2009.
It requires a full four digit year, and the date must be after 1/1/1970.
.PP
.I Time2
is a date that should be after 
.I time1;
it makes the program look for dates in this range.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-b file
use this file as an alternate "body" file (the file that
has all the information about the file system), instead of what
is configured in coroner.cf.

.TP 8
.B \-d
directory.  Scans and reports on this directory instead of using the
existing database; e.g. does NOT use the existing body database file.

.TP 8
.B \-D
debugging flag.  Lots and lots of output.  You don't want this!

.TP 8
.B \-f filename
flag files listed in file as a different color (HTML only).

.TP 8
.B \-g group
uses an alternate group file for printing groups.

.TP 8
.B \-h
emit some simple HTML stuff rather than plain ASCII text.

.TP 8
.B \-l
takes "last" output, sort of, as a time.  Last looks like:

	zen       ttyp2    random.trouble.o Sat Mar 21 16:24 - 11:43  (19:19)

	This program wants everything from the date on; in this case, the:
	"Sat Mar 21 16:24 - 11:43  (19:19)" bit.  Note that it calculates 
	the time the user was on from the parenthesized time, not the time 
	after the "-", which doesn't do multiple days, etc. very well.
	It doesn't understand certain things  like "still logged in":

	zen       ftp      208.197.253.142  Sun Mar 22 13:49   still logged in

	And other valid last entries from last(1).

.TP 8
.B \-n
takes normal "date" output, which looks something like:
	"Tue Apr  7 17:20:43 PDT 1998"

.TP 8
.B \-p passwd
uses an alternate password file for printing uids.

.TP 8
.B \-R
recursively go through subdirectories (only useful with the -d flag)

.TP 8
.B \-s
flag SUID/SGID files as a different color (HTML only).

.TP 8
.B \-t
output in time machine format

.TP 8
.B \-y
Print year first to avoid euro/US data ambiguity - normally stuff
is MM/DD/YYYY, this does YYYY/MM/DD.

.TP 8
.B \-u user
flag files owned by user as a different color (HTML only).

.SH FILES
.I coroner.cf
- some global TCT defaults and configuration details 
(is perl executable code).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR grave-robber (1),
.BR stat (2V)
.SH LICENSE
Distributed under the details found in the
.I COPYRIGHT
file found in the root directory of The Coroner's Toolkit.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
dan farmer
zen@fish.com
EarthLink

