.TH PCAT 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
pcat
\-
copy process memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBpcat\fR [\fB-hHv\fR] [\fB-m\fI mapfile\fR] \fIprocess_id\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBpcat\fR hooks onto the process specified with \fIprocess_id\fR
and copies the contents of its memory to standard output. By default,
\fBpcat\fR skips over holes in the process address space.
Consequently, absolute location information is lost.

Options:
.IP "\fB-h\fR (default)"
Skip over holes in the process address space, so that absolute
location information is lost.
.IP \fB-H\fR
Preserve holes in the process address space, so that absolute
location information is preserved.  This option writes holes to
the output file, and requires that stdout is redirected to file.
This option does not work on some Solaris versions.
.IP "\fB-m\fR \fImapfile\fR"
Print the process memory map to \fImapfile\fR, one entry per line.
Specify \fB-m-\fR to write to the standard error stream.
Each map entry consists of a region start address and the first
address beyond that region. Addresses are separated by space,
and are printed as hexadecimal numbers (0xhhhh).
.IP \fB-v\fR
Enable verbose mode, for debugging purposes.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
On systems with a usable \fB/proc\fR file system, \fBpcat\fR
does not stop the target process before accessing its memory.
This can result in a loss of accuracy.

\fBpcat\fR uses ptrace(2) when the system lacks a usable
\fB/proc\fR file system. This can be very, very, slow.

The use of ptrace(2) causes the target process to be stopped
while its memory being is copied. This can be undesirable.

On some systems, the ptrace(2) detach operation resumes a process
that was stopped prior to the ptrace(2) attach operation.
\fBpcat\fR attempts to compensate by sending SIGSTOP signals when
it detaches from the process.

On some systems, the ptrace(2) detach operation leaves a process
stopped that was not stopped prior to the ptrace(2) attach operation.
\fBpcat\fR attempts to compensate by sending a SIGCONT signal when
it detaches from the process.

On most non-\fB/proc\fR systems, \fBpcat\fR accesses kernel data
structures and therefore 1) needs super-user privilege and 2) must
be compiled specifically for the machine that it runs on.

\fBpcat\fR will not copy its own memory.

\fBpcat\fR will not copy system processes (i.e. processes
that live entirely inside the kernel).
.SH HISTORY
.na
.nf
.fi
.ad
This \fBpcat\fR command was written for the coroner's toolkit.
However, a command with the same name exists on some versions
of System V UNIX. That command, a file decompression utility,
should not be confused with the command described in this
manual page.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
This software is distributed under the IBM Public License.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
