.TH UNRM 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
unrm
\-
disk data recovery
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
\fBunrm\fR [\fB-bevV\fR] [\fB-f \fIfstype\fR]
\fIdevice\fR [\fIstart-stop\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fBunrm\fR opens the named \fIdevice\fR and copies data blocks.
By default, \fBunrm\fR copies unallocated data blocks only.

Arguments:
.IP \fB-b\fR
With file systems that have logical blocks that consist of fragments,
don't insert null-byte padding to preserve logical block alignment
in the output.
This option is a no-op with the LINUX ext2fs file system, where
logical blocks and fragments have the same size.
.IP \fB-e\fR
Copy every block. The output should be similar to dd(1).
.IP "\fB-f\fI fstype\fR"
Specifies the file system type. The default file system type
is system dependent. With most UNIX systems the default type
is \fBufs\fR (Berkeley fast file system). With Linux the default
type is \fBext2fs\fR (second extended file system).
.IP \fB-v\fR
Turn on verbose mode, output to stderr.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Turn on verbose mode, output to stdout.
.IP \fIdevice\fR
Disk special file, or regular file containing a disk image.
On UNIX systems, raw mode disk access may give better performance
than block mode disk access.  LINUX disk device drivers support
only block mode disk access.
.IP "\fIstart-stop\fR ..."
Examine the specified block number or number range. Either the
\fIstart\fR, the \fIstop\fR, or the \fI-stop\fR may be omitted.
If \fB-b\fR is not specified, the start block must be
aligned to a logical block boundary (e.g. a multiple of 8 in
the case of an FFS file system). With the LINUX ext2fs file system,
the start block number must be >= 1.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
\fBunrm\fR should support more file system types. Right now, support
is limited to \fBext2fs\fR when built on Linux, and \fBufs\fR when
built on Solaris and BSD systems.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
This software is distributed under the IBM Public License.
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Wietse Venema
IBM T.J. Watson Research
P.O. Box 704
Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA
